# Saradomin: Hi-C Fastq Analysis & Data Set Preparation for Neural Networks

Saradomin streamlines the preparation of Hi-C sequencing data for neural network applications, 
offering data analysis and debugging insights.

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Configuration](#configuration)

## Introduction

The Saradomin project is designed to facilitate the processing of Hi-C Fastq data, 
transforming raw sequencing reads into structured datasets suitable for neural network models. 
Additionally, it provides analytical information to enhance the debugging process, ensuring data integrity 
and usability.

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.10 or higher

### Environment Setup
We recommend using a Python virtual environment for dependency management:

1. **Create a Virtual Environment:**
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv saradomin_env
   ```

2. **Activate the Virtual Environment:**
   ```bash
   source saradomin_env/bin/activate
   ```

3. **Install Dependencies:**
   Navigate to the project's root directory and run:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

## Getting Started

### Preparing Your Data
Saradomin processes `.allValidPairs` files generated by [HiC-Pro](https://github.com/nservant/HiC-Pro/tree/master) and Fastq reads 
from Hi-C experiments. Ensure your input files conform to the structure demonstrated 
in the `test_data` directory.


## Configuration

Tailor Saradomin to your project needs by adjusting its configuration:

1. **Custom Configuration File:**
   For project-specific settings, create a `config.py` file in the `etc/saradomin/` directory. This file should define necessary parameters such as input file paths and processing options.

2. **Local Configuration:**
   For quick adjustments, modify the `config.py` file in the root directory. This approach is recommended for temporary changes or small-scale projects.


